---
title: Jakarta EE 9 and Beyond
speaker: Ivar Grimstad
speaker2: Tanja Obradovic
speakerpic: ivargrimstad.jpg
speakerpic2: tanjaobradovic.png
twitter: ivar_grimstad
twitter2: tanjaobradovic
date: 2021-01-14 18:30
---

### Zusammenfassung


In this session, Tanja and Ivar will go through the upcoming Jakarta EE 9 release, how it lowers the barriers of entry, eases the migration, and lays the foundation for a platform for future innovation.

They will also look ahead towards what future releases may bring, as well as showing demos of how to convert from the javax.* to jakarta.* namespace and showcase available implementations and tooling support available.


### Sprecher


{% include speakerpic-name.html %} is the Jakarta EE Developer Advocate at Eclipse Foundation. He is a Java Champion and JUG Leader based in Sweden.

Ivar is the PMC Lead for Eclipse Enterprise for Java (EE4J) and involved in the Jakarta EE Working Group. He is also one of the community representatives in the JCP Executive Committee as well as specification lead for JSR 371 (MVC 1.0).

Ivar is also involved in Eclipse MicroProfile, Apache NetBeans and a frequent speaker at International developer conferences.

{% include speakerpic-name.html speaker=page.speaker2 speakerpic=page.speakerpic2 twitter=page.twitter2 %} joined the Eclipse Foundation to work on Jakarta EE in June 2018. Having been involved with Java and Java EE for quite some time, revitalizing Enterprise Java seemed like a good challenge and a great fit for Tanja! Outside the office, she loves spending time with her family and friends, art, outdoor activities (even in winter!), traveling, and beaches.

### Registrierung

Den Link zum Webinar über Zoom schicken wir an alle angemeldeten Personen per E-Mail (schaut auch in Eure Spam-Ordner!). Wer sehr kurzfristig dazustossen will, muss uns am besten unter orga@jug-da.de oder über eine Direktnachricht auf Twitter (@JUG_DA) anpingen.
